we make a lot of videos which is why
over the years we've built out over 2
and a half pedabytes of bulk storage but
somehow it's not enough It's never
enough and that's especially true when
you consider all of our upcoming
projects the videos just keep coming the
badminton gaming center needs capacity
and if I am ever going to deliver on
that free storage backups as an employee
perk concept I'm going to need a lot
more storage like at least another pedy
worth in this economy you're right
storage ain't cheap but what if I told
you that I could get a pedite for half
the price I'm listening well we can in
our quest to find the most
cost-effective storage upgrade we
stumbled upon these they are recertified
drives but the recertification is done
by Seagate themselves and they come in
at just about half the price of the same
drives brand new so like any other same
person would I immediately handed eBay
my credit card information and ordered
$10,000 worth of them that's 60 drives
so you got to be wondering lonus what's
the catch come closer and I'm going to
tell
you it's our sponsor MSI they've got
laptop deals on Deck this December from
the sleek and slim modern 15h aai to the
gaming Powerhouse Katana a15 AI you can
save big by clicking our Link in the
description
[Music]
okay the real answer to what's the catch
is we don't know yet that's kind of the
point of this adventure you see the best
advice that we've ever gotten and given
is to avoid secondhand storage so this
is kind of untreed territory for us but
the deal it was too sweet to pass up now
it's not like we were worried about
getting outright scammed eBay has pretty
good buyer protections and the main
sellers of these recertified drives seem
to have excellent ratings with most of
the drives even coming with some kind of
warranty but there's still a lot of
questions like what does recertified
even mean are they used it's hard to say
I mean the eBay listings for these
drives say that they have extremely low
power on hours and no bad sectors which
would seem to suggest that they're
basically brand new but if they were
recertified by Seagate the manufacturer
then in theory they could just reset the
power on hours the next thing the script
says is unbox them but there's not a
whole lot of unboxing to do like is this
how they came well it's it's not like
when you buy an individual drive it's
not like they're all going to ship in
like Amazon packaging when you're buying
60 they come in trads and that makes
sense okay so how used do these look I
would say they look pretty not used to
me not at all there's some fingerprints
but you know our inventory people
definitely put asset tags on them not on
this one oh it's freaking clean we
gloves even the screw holes I don't
think these have ever been mounted to
anything look at this 22 2022 are they
all like that
2021 so these were manufactured anytime
over the last few years I mean these
drives didn't come out until like the
end of 2021 like December oh yeah that
one's 2020 so that must be a very early
one where did they come from server
Parts deals ah yes on eBay so in instead
of buying our drives from seagate's own
store we chose server part deals they
sell them either Factory sealed still
recertified but sealed or they actually
crack them open and pre-b bur in test
them for up to 50 hours according to
server part deals the chance of getting
a DOA Drive is actually much lower with
those Burnin ones so we opted for that
when we picked these up last December
sometimes it takes us a while to catch
up to our production ideas we found that
The Sweet Spot was these 20 terab drives
for $180 a piece and looking on eBay
seems like we actually got a pretty
sweet deal they're closer to $220 now
but even that is a huge discount
compared to new and you could probably
save a bit by buying from them directly
rather than buying through eBay
Disclosure by the way server part deals
is one of our sponsors now but not on
this video and they actually weren't
when we bought these drives from them no
we we paid retail for these should we
plug them in yeah I want to see if the
hours are correct okay we got Cate SE
tools we've got one of our drives here
yeah Drive details smart 21 okay that
checks out that's like nothing
essentially yeah great now we just need
a machine to put them in since our goal
is to Save A Buck we're going to reuse
as much Hardware as possible starting
with this 45 Drive storinator XL 60 that
we decommissioned a few years ago it
still fits 60 drives just like it did
when it was part of our original paby
cluster but now it has double the
capacity cuz we're using 20 TB
drives man I remember when we built that
so many people were like you're crazy
dude just just use the cloud bro news
flash the cloud is expensive bro
and even when it isn't getting your data
back from it is really expensive it's
actually been pretty validating seeing
how many folks have been migrating back
to having their servers on Prem now to
be clear we do use back Blaze backups
but only for backup and only for our
active projects now obviously a home or
a small business user is unlikely to
have one of these kicking around but
everything that we're doing could be
scaled down to just a handful of drives
in a Nas chassis or even a single Drive
in a recycled oplex like that one that
Jake has right next to him which is the
same one that we showed off in our hexos
announcement video there's actually even
people selling 3D printed Nas cases that
look pretty cool the point is you don't
need to buy dozens of drives in a fancy
old server to get a great deal or at
least what we hope is a really great
deal you sound so confident oh I'm
confident all right I'm confident it's
time to rip these out of here oh it's
almost as old as me it is not on the
subject of our server being kind of old
there are some Choice upgrades we want
to make to this old girl before we throw
her back in the rack oh yeah if our
inventory records are correct the CPU in
that machine is over 8 years old and
perform Sim Illy to a first gen ryzen 5
I mean look don't get me wrong there is
absolutely no shame in driving the car
you got and for home use realistically
your network speed is going to be a
bottleneck before your CPU but we
happened to have some newer Hardware
sitting on the shelf specifically this
ASRock rack Rome d8 2T with an epic
7402p 24 core processor according to
PassMark it is nearly five times faster
than the old8 core that it's replacing
now one important tip if you are going
to be reusing old gear like our old
board make sure to update the BIOS to
get the latest security patches and
definitely replace any dried out thermal
past this one should be good I I redid
that not that long ago okay board's in
but I forgot to check the memory it
looks like yeah we got 256 gigs of ram
in here which means we should probably
put in some more the rule of thumb is
about 1 gig of RAM per terabyte of
storage for read caching but our
workload is actually pretty read light
so I think we're just going to leave
this for now what we're not not going to
leave are these hbas these high point
750s were end of life years ago but more
importantly they just kind of suck So
the plan is to replace them with some
LSI 9200 series cards now these are also
very old like PCI Express Gen 2 a but
for us that's a feature since they
happen to have the right connectors for
the cabling in our machine so
specifically we're going to be using a
pair of genuine LSI 8 drive cards and
then three of these 16 Drive cards two
of which are genuine and one of which is
an eBay knockoff now we had a whole
video planned on these things back in
the day which is actually why we have
this I think this one's the fake one
yeah it doesn't say LSI on the front
whereas the other ones do but the thing
is counterfeit silicon is pretty unusual
and I suspect this is just old chips
from maybe failed boards in some other
way that have been resolder onto new
boards so
should be fine I guess that's part of
the adventure I've had some friends
who've had these like cheap cards work
for years without issues and others
who've had them die in a few months we
don't have much choice either way since
the legit ones are really hard to find
I'm almost done wiring up all the drives
then all I got to do is Chuck a little
m.2 boot Drive in there and then in our
last slot that's not it uh I'm going to
be using a melanox there we go Invidia
connectx 6 dual Port 100 Gig network
card oh you want to put that in too
we're also going to use this cool
adapter do dad to connect this 2 and 1/2
in Dell Gen 4 nvme SSD that we had lying
around and then we can use that to help
with read caching or level two Arc it
can hang out let screw it in first what
I don't need to screw nothing in you
screw it in look it fell out that's
because you didn't screw it in way to go
Jake didn't say drop it on the be
careful that's from startech they kindly
sent that to us thanks
[Music]
startech now to keep everything in this
area cool I'm going to throw in a noctua
industrial 3000 RPM 140 mil fan that way
we won't have any issues with
overheating on our network card hbas or
the nvme SSD that's in there now to find
out if it
boots I don't actually know like it
probably
should n my optimism is steadily
decreasing if you have a situation like
this where you're not getting a display
signal from a computer you're trying to
troubleshoot a good way to check if it's
actually working is to use caps lock or
numb lock which you can see when I click
caps
lock it is turning on and off so clearly
this system is posting it's just not
outputting the display signal for some
reason or potentially this cable or the
monitor is not working I'm going to try
the ipmi and see if that works hey okay
it's working sick with that out of the
way let's talk software there are
obviously a lot of options but our go-to
for a while has been trass scale it's
free which is always great and most
importantly the ZF FS file system it
uses is perfect for large setups like
this and super resilient so if we have
any issues with these drives which I
hope we don't our data should be fine if
you're a home gamer you might also want
to check out hexos the userfriendly nas
software Linus invested in once it's out
of Early Access but if you're not
feeling adventurous there's always
unraid whose main claim to fame is the
ability to expand its array one drive at
a time or there's open media Vault we've
got trass installed now everything seems
to be working and we can finally put
some hard drives in heavy as a full
train it's heavy so I've recruited
help it'll take a sec for them all to
get like detected and imported but let's
see how many we have so far ooh is she
working I mean it's on but I haven't
looked at the drives yet so I guess
let's see how we doing
61 wow they're all working well they all
show up well yeah I mean we haven't made
an array yet should we run a smart test
on all of them first can you do that all
at once oh yeah nice wow well that's
great so they all pass a short smart
test if you're getting new drives you
should do more than that you should
usually people recommend zeroing them
all out not because you need to clear
the data but as a burn in to make sure
that all the sectors are good and
everything is happy we're not going to
do that right now but it's not a bad
thing to try and in theory server part
deals has already done that for us cool
so we can make a pool now oh boy what do
you want to call it swimming what so
it's a swimm swimming pool no I don't
like that I'm going to call it ocean I'm
not salty since this is primarily
archival storage and since we have a lot
of discs we're going to group our drives
into six 10 Drive raid Z2 vdevs that two
in the raid Z2 means that we have two
drives worth of data protection kind of
like raid six so for us to lose any
actual data we would need to have three
drives fail and all three would have to
be within the same 10 Drive Group which
which is fairly unlikely since
multi-drive failures like that usually
happen when you end up with drives from
the same bad batch and since our drives
are recertified it's much more likely
that they are from different time
periods and different batches and the
script says in theory because we hadn't
actually looked at the stamps on the
chassis yet in practice they are very
different 2021 2022 they're all over the
place now for a home setup you're
probably going to go with something like
a four six or eight wide raid Z1 or Z2
depending on how important that data is
to you but with the new r z expansion
feature you can start as small as two or
even three drives and then expand that
existing group as you want to add more
drives that's pretty convenient yeah
well we can click Start now or go yeah
do it so we should have 873 tib bytes
what are you for t to TB 960 terab damn
hard drives have just been kind of
quietly in the background getting like
kind of awesome kind of thick well I've
paid absolutely no attention attention
to the it's like
children uh our cash SSD is not detected
most people if they're trying to build
something like this at home they're not
building with a petabyte of drives
they're not going to have a cache SSD in
it so let's have a look something about
it is not happy we will have to figure
that out later yep I'm not expecting
like crazy numbers cuz it's really old
hbas and we have a very wide vde depth
size I mean but 8 gigabytes a second
that's pretty good or giby bytes oh I'll
take it goes up and down and up and down
it's hard drivve so we're not really
gonna get much better than that well
dude I'm not gonna complain about that
that's sick we're not even GNA be able
to realistically do that so yeah that's
great but most of what we're doing on
this thing is sequential anyway exactly
that is like five to seven times what we
would even be doing over like a 10 gig
connection yeah which is most of the
accesses we do except when we're doing
backups and stuff anyways so great
freaking awesome yeah I mean the drives
they haven't complained wait this is
great but remember you said you were
going to reach out to and find out
what's the deal with these drives I did
they didn't respond at least they
haven't yet and it's been like 4 days or
something like that okay I did find a
press release on their website about
this program with eBay and it makes it
sound almost like they're taking drives
that people were going to throw away
like from a data center recycler and
refurbing them I don't know it doesn't
say anything conclusively and they look
really new they look really new it seems
like our best guess is that they're just
customer returns or something like that
okay well bad batches they rehabed one
way or another in total we spent
$1,160 on 62 drives which compared to
the
235,000 we would have paid for new ones
seems like a pretty good deal as long as
they don't all crap out for now things
look good but it's hard to say what the
long-term reliability is going to look
like I'm hopeful though especially given
that none of them died immediately so
even if they do the fact that we're
using ZFS means we should be able to
resilver and repair the
in a pretty safe way yeah I mean most
hard drives either die like in the first
day or you know 3 four 5 years later
right server part deals also warranties
the drives themselves so should be okay
yeah and full disclosure um I took about
half of these drives for another project
and they were running for 6 months and
they still don't have errors okay well
that's a good sign yeah and to feed my
data hoarder habits in this economy I
actually switched over to recertify
drives at my house and and I've got two
more or three more of them actually that
have been running for multiple years now
and they've been great now a brand new
exos Drive is going to come with a 5year
warranty instead of just two but given
these are around half the price with
halfish the warranty it was kind of
worth the gamble for me but let us know
in the comments if you've had any
experience with recertified drives
either good or bad like I don't know we
get Flack sometimes when we show a good
deal online and then it goes out of
stock a few hours later and no one else
can get the same deal but that shouldn't
be the case with these there's an entire
industry around reusing recertifying and
refurbishing Enterprise it equipment and
there seems to be no shortage of storage
devices uh one of our favorites is the
those jbod disc shelves oh yeah those
allow you to connect a bunch of hard
drives to like an existing system and uh
we did a video on them a while ago you
should check it out yeah we also came
across a pretty wild deal on some nvme
ssds when we were researching this
project so uh Happy deal hunting out
there for now it's time for me to go
hunting segue season to our sponsor
ground news when you think of the news
you think cold hard facts right wrong
now more than ever you're being told the
stories the media wants you to hear
ground News is here to help filter out
the fluff and let you come to your own
conclusions they gather articles on
stories from thousands of sources and
take into account political biases and
allow you to compare the coverage and
see how the story changes depending on
whose's reporting I'm sure you've all
heard that Pat Ginger recently retired
as Intel CEO around when they announced
their next generation of graphics cards
you can see on screen right now that
reports are not really leaning heavily
left or right but there's a tiny bit of
left leaning bias and thanks to their
bias comparison tool as more articles
come in you'll see a breakdown of what
aspects of the story are being focused
on by each side their blind spot tool is
a great feature that shows you stories
that might not be covered by your own
preferred news sources go to ground.
news/ LTT to get started and take
advantage of a very limited 50% discount
on their Vantage plans for yourself or
maybe as a little gift if you guys like
this video why not check out the mother
Vault build hell yeah that was pretty
sick that was like the deluxe version of
those Drive shelves yeah it is exactly
that yeah and you know I might use some
of these drives as like spares for that